[MUSIC PLAYING]
WIM: Hello, everyone.
In this optional video I
want to explain that really,
in functional languages,
there are only functions.
What I want to do is give
you a quick intuition
how we can remove all
the syntactic sugar
from functional
languages and reduce it
to only lambda functions.
So the full elaboration
of how you can do this
is explained in the
article on the site.
We will just cover
the basic ideas.
So let's start with
the let construction.
Suppose you have something
like-- say a let block
where we have n
is assigned to 10,
and we define the function
f of x being x plus 1
and we apply f to n. So
basically the whole thing should
return 11.
So we want to rewrite this
so that there will only
be lambda functions left.
So the obvious first
rewrite we can do
is rewrite this function
definition of the lambda.
So very simply.
OK?
So then the next
thing we will do
is we have a let that
contains two variables.
And we will essentially do the
equivalent of currying
in the let block.
So we will transform this let
block into a nested let block.
So what we're doing-- what
you're doing is clear and--
OK.
So now we have a nested let.
Now we have this let expression
with just a single variable
here.
And we can now rewrite this as a
lambda expression as follows.
So I'll just put it
on this right here.
So this whole let
block here is actually
entirely equivalent to a
lambda function applied
to the function that defines f.
So we bind f to this
function and apply to n.
So all we have to do is do the
same for the outer let,
and that's quite simple.
So we take the outer
let and transform it
into lambda expression, which
says basically, we have n
applied to this construct here.
And apply to 10.
So if we just straighten
it out a bit, we get.
So we have transformed
the whole nested
let into a series of lambdas.
Thus you can see it's
entirely equivalent,
but it's a lot
less easy to type,
which is why the let syntax
is available in the language
of course.
So the next thing
we want to do is
see if we can define conditional
expressions, and so on.
And for that we need to define
the values of True and False.
You might wonder,
how can we define
the values of true and false
without having any numbers,
because remember we're
going to use only functions,
so even numbers are not available.